## Running the SSV or the SIM

sddp_solver \[options\] SDDPBlock.nc4

with the following set of options :

-B, \--blockcfg \<file\> Block configuration.

-c, \--configdir \<path\> The prefix for all config filenames.

-e, \--eliminate-redundant-cuts Eliminate given redundant cuts.

-h, \--help Print this help.

-i, \--scenario \<index\> The index of the scenario.

-l, \--load-cuts \<file\> Load cuts from a file.

-m, \--num-simulations \<number\> Number of simulations to be performed.

-n, \--num-blocks \<number\> Number of sub-Blocks per stage.

-p, \--prefix \<path\> The prefix for all Block filenames.

-s, \--simulation Simulation mode.

-S, \--solvercfg \<file\> Solver configuration.

-t, \--stage \<stage\> Stage from which initial state is taken.

The option -s corresponds to the SIM, it requires to choose a scenario
with option -i ; without this option the SSV will be run. For running
the SIM, the option -l is also needed (for loading BellmanValues)

SDDPBlock.nc4 is the netcdf input file. Block\$i.nc4 (at all \$i stages)
are also needed (they must be in the directory given with option -p);
they can be generated by the formatting tool, mode SDDPandUC.

sddp_solver requires a specific configuration file for SMS++:
sddp_solver.txt for solving the SSV, and sddp_greedy.txt for solving the
SIM (see 7.17.4, 7.2), as well as the configuration file of
ucblock_solver (see 7.4.)

Detailed documentation as well as examples of configuration files can be
found on the SMS++ repository : [SMS++ / Tools ·
GitLab](https://gitlab.com/smspp/tools/-/tree/master/)

